I was mentioning I was very interested in the
trivia of A&M, especially as it relates to sports.
And I've done a number of speeches that, depending
on how long you want, 15 to 30 minutes, even going
with the traveling Aggies to Ireland last year,
I'd have campusology questions because
everybody can identify with them. But I might ask,
what is A&M's greatest football game? When the
course center, I have to give a lot of tours. And I'd
get down to the end where one of the cases where we
have one half of it, two of the panels devoted to
General Rutter. On the other side, two to Dr.
Sanders, who the Core Center is named after
because he gave us the $1.5 million gift. But I
would ask the question, if I happen to be in that
part of the Core Center, or even at reunions or
whatever, what was A&M's greatest football game?
And it'll come around after a while. Someone will
say the Center College game. And
you ask the question about
that game, you can say, well, why is that game so
important? And you can go back and there's an
entire epistle could be written about that game.
The coach for Center College, He had been fired at
A&M, had a tremendous winning record, had been
fired, and here he is now coaching a center
college, a little school up in Kentucky. and of
course where the debates took place, the second
one this year for the president race, he turned
down the Rose Bowl. They had beaten Harvard the
game before, but why did he want to come to Texas A&M
and play? Was it revenge? When I say A&M, it was
actually the start of the Cotton Bowl Classic
called the Dixie Classic. They played in Dallas,
but why would he want to come there instead of going
to Rose Bowl? I sometimes think, well, Charlie
Moran had 11 football players on that team from
Fort Worth, Dallas, so maybe the recruiting was
good there. Who knows? Very interesting game. Bo
McMillan was their quarterback, top football
player in America that year, later coached at
Kansas. But Bo McMillan would have won the Heisman
if they had won it. I like to think he made two
mistakes that day. Right before the kickoff, he
got married on the 50-yard line. And so he said, I
do. The second thing he said was kick to that little
guy in the corner. And the kickoff, Dr. Sanders,
who the core center is named after, Little Sammy,
ran the kickoff back 55 yards. And so they didn't
kick to Little Sammy anymore. But you go with that
game, and you say, what is it famous for? It's
famous for the 12th man. And if you... Want to spin
off of that, you can say, well, why was it famous,
you know, the 12th man? And they'll say, well, of
course, the 12th man never played football. He ran
track, played basketball. I think 99.9% of people
will tell you that. But if you research a little
bit, you'll find that, yes, he did play against
Texas the next year. He caught a 25-yard pass for a
touchdown. And the score was tied 7 to 7 inside the
last minute. He took another 25 to the 4. A&M scored
and won 14 to 7, 19-22 against Texas. The Dixie
Classic, of course, was January 2, 1922. So the
next football season, you got a little bit of
insight into the 12th man being an all-around
football player. I'd mentioned earlier, we'll
get back on Charlie Moran, he had umpired in either
two or three World Series also, was an outstanding
coach, but... I like to ask the question now after
all of that garbage is why did A&M win? And you'll
get everything from they had to fight in Texas
Aggie spirit to whatever. I like to point and say
right there at that case with the banner in it and
with the pennant in it, I say I like to think A&M won
that day because Center College came out wearing
orange and white. and so those are the kind of
things that you could you know you could you could
throw in but but uh back uh back uh in my days again i
remember uh my freshman year very very well uh we
had we went out to the clay pits we were playing
baylor and waco our unit didn't go to the game it was
not a court trip but we were expected to go i can
remember that Probably one of the greatest games
A&M's ever played. I think we scored four times in
the last 15 and a half minutes to come back and beat
Baylor. We were down two touchdowns. It was one of
those unbelievable games, and we listened to it on
the radio out there, and I think we had a beer bus. Of
course, it wasn't supposed to be drinking, but at
all the parties there was alcohol, basically.
Where were the clay pits? Out across Welborn Road.
How far? I guess, if I want to remember right, it's
probably seven miles or so. And then west? Mm-hmm.
down in somebody's pasture.
Was there supposed to be permission? I don't know.
Of course, being a freshman, you never knew. And
the only time I ever went was that freshman year of
the Baylor game. I can remember Tuesday night yell
practice. Some of the yellators
were very upset that some of the units didn't go,
and they knew that our unit actually went to the
clay pits, and so we were singled out even with over
4,000 freshmen in the corps. Our outfit got
singled out that we didn't go to game. And so we
were... Now, when people went to the clay pits,
were there any women along ever? Not the, that was
the only time I went. Now, I've seen pictures I've
been through thousands of pictures in the course
center and I've seen pictures of gals there. But
usually it was all male, wasn't it? Oh, yeah. And
did you skinny dip or did you wear a bathing suit? We
always wore a bathing suit. Who brought the beer? I
don't remember. I just remember it was always
there, you know. Of course, as only going to it one
time. Now, we had a lot of parties we would have
through my junior and senior year, especially. We
had a lot of parties with sororities or things. One
of the best guys, it seemed like, at ranging
parties was Dr. Gary Halter. He always seemed to
have a connection. He was a year behind me. We used
to hitchhike home together some. He was from
Wichita Falls. But somebody would set up a party
with a sorority, maybe, or even a dorm at Sam
Houston or Texas, and two stories I can throw in
right fast. We always had a court trip either to
Fort Worth or to Dallas. And I can remember going to
my post office box and, dear Box 5611, I'm Box 5611.
My name is Yolanda . My wife says I never forget
anything, but she could never understand why I
couldn't remember anything when I was a freshman
or in school. But I remember that a lot of guys what
you consider a blind date based on their box mate at
Tessie. Did this Tessie ask you for a date? No, but
she was very friendly. But as I remember, I told you
I was SHY with the capital SHY. So you didn't
receive it. All I remember is Yolanda Mayhouse.
But by the time I came a junior, we would have
parties and blind dates. And I remember one that
Gary was responsible for setting up over at Austin
with somebody he knew. Pretty sure Gary did this
one. And it was with a sorority, and I was a junior,
and my roommate and I decided that we were going to
make a lot of money, so we sold setups. We sold cokes
and ice, and we probably made $70, $80 that night.
We were in king cotton, but we had a fish dunkin'.
Eddie Duncan had a blind date with a high school
senior who was visiting, someone named... Linda
Bird Johnson. And I can remember the Monday
mornings, the only time I've ever heard a
freshman, as we would say in the Corps, fart off or
make fun of another freshman. That morning, the
whistle jock blew the whistle and said, Fish
Duncan went all the way with LBJ. And, of course,
that was that slogan the same year that we were at
the Baylor football game in Waco. And that was the
Baylor game my freshman year we didn't go to. But
junior year, I remember an airplane flew over
dropping out leaflets. And it's when Lyndon
Johnson was running for vice president and
senator. And it said on the outside, don't be half
safe. And then you opened it up and it said, strike
LBJ twice. But those kind of things. But we did have
a lot of parties and dates. A lot of guys, the dances
were always big. I don't think in the time I was at
A&M I ever had a date for a dance down here. You know,
first place, it cost a little bit of money, and
you'd have dates out of town or go home with
somebody, but having somebody come in here and pay
all of that, but I think the majority of the people
did, though. As far as you remember, how were women
treated at A&M social events? I'll give you an
example. G. Raleigh White, I missed one
basketball game in five years, even though I told
you I worked the intramurals four years. I can
remember if a girl was there, especially walking
up those stairs, how the animals would all,
certain girls, you know, and they would have to
come, if they came to our dorm, there was not the
lounges that were there when I came back to teach
ROTC in the 70s between the dorms. They'd have to
sit out there on the cement block or stairs, I mean
steps out there. you could call it a bench but it'd
be a funny name for it but uh uh then the cat calls the
names uh but now after that at the the senior ball oh
yes they uh they were treated like royalty yeah
they oh definitely definitely because most of the
time there was girls that were coming from off
campus and and also uh girls uh uh it was kind of
unwritten ruled that a lot of girls didn't date,
didn't date, local girls didn't date Aggies, or
Allen Academy. At that time, I know I did go out some
with one of the, in fact, he was my psychology prof.
I went out with his daughter some, and I roomed with
a guy my, and part of my senior year until I went to
staff the third week. I was always dating local
girls, but it was kind of a, and most of the girls
that would come in here were ones that they had
dated from their home or high school or whatever.
Describe being a freshman on a court trip. The
first thing I remember is somehow I got to the Rice
game. And I remember that we stayed at the Rice
Hotel, and I think there were 14 of us that stayed in
the room that night. And I remember we did not, my
freshman year, we did not have a party. But most of
the other court trips after my freshman year, we'd
always have parties, and the blind dates would be
arranged and everything. You got there, somebody
had a car. I think in my outfit, probably one out of
every four guys had an automobile, five guys,
maybe even less. But you always managed to get a
ride, and it was kind of like the big thing then, of
course, were the hometown clubs, because
especially if you lived a good ways, from the
campus because that's how you could figure out how
you get home. You stayed in contact with the people
going back, maybe Wichita Falls. Even though, as I
say, I hitchhiked home a lot back and forth. Not
that much, but. Describe hitchhiking to your
expert. Usually wear your uniform because it
helped. I had an old leather suitcase and I had that
that T, which everybody knew it stood for A&M on it.
And you might, from here to Jacksboro, it might
take 13 different people. You never even had any
ill feelings or fear or anything about
hitchhiking. You and nowadays of course
everybody knows you you got to be afraid of the
person picking you up as well as the person you're
picking up, but I can remember to the well to this
day I might go through Marlin or somewhere and I'll
see a Intersection there a country far in the
market road and just remember being there Fort
Worth for an example if you happen to go that way
instead of cutting through a Meridian, Clifton,
Stephenville, Highco, that direction, Middle
Wales to get to Jacksonville. A lot of times that
road going on north through Fort Worth, you'd have
to get out, and you'd have to walk all the way across
Fort Worth, which probably was what we thought was
a long ways, but was probably a couple of miles to
get to Jacksonville. to Henderson Street or
Jacksboro Highway, as they call it. Were there
kind of special places where you'd hitchhike?
Sure. Out of Waco, Highway 6, where it used to come
in, there was the shed that you'd always gather
there. Out here, just right outside Eastgate
here, Eastgate Lounge with the bus station and all
that on down to where University Towers is is where
people would go. And there was kind of a standard
rule. You waited your turn. You didn't go and get in
front of somebody, you know. And hopefully the
cars coming would pick the first guys up. And so it
was like standing in line for a sale. on the day
after Christmas, you know, you just don't go and
get in front of those people. And you might get out
of an old pickup into an air-conditioned car, you
know. Did you ever have any negative experience?
About the only negative experience was I was
wondering what I was doing when I'm out there still
11 o'clock at night trying to get home. Nobody ever
took a problem? shot at me or anything, any kind of
what you'd call the advances you worry about or
being robbed or anything. Probably the best
experience I ever had was a guy picked me up outside
of Jacksburg going to Houston. And when he got up to
in front of the campus, I pointed over there to Dorm
2 because you didn't have the oceanography,
meteorology, or any of those buildings. I said,
that's my dorm with the lights. And I can just
remember he says, son, I brought you this for you.
I'm going to take you to your door. But you didn't
think anything about it. I grew up, we wanted to go
swimming in Graham. We hitchhiked there. All
right, back to academics. Was the second semester
better, your freshman year? Second semester was a
little bit better. I never was below, the entire
time I was in school here, I never was below a C
average, but I never did really do anything.
Probably did the best my junior year when I would
have had what you call a three-point, a little over
a three-point that one semester. But I was taking
18 hours that semester, too. But I didn't learn to
manage my time probably till my junior year. Did
you ever during that freshman year ever think
about dropping out of school? Only one time. I
guess when I was losing so much weight that before
probably about the fifth or sixth week. And I
remember my father only told me two things
referenced by going to A&M. One was he told me to,
well, can I wait till the end of the semester, which
I did. The other time at the end of my sophomore
year, I was going to drop out of school. and I joined
the Marines and so I quit going to class and I
was working as an intramural manager and I would
sign up the tennis that spring out on the tennis
court and so I would play tennis from five o'clock
till sometimes stay there because I was I was now a
junior. I didn't have to worry about formation. We
might play 7, 8 o'clock at night. I would just stay
over there. And that's when, at the end of the
semester, I told my daddy I was going to join the
Marines. And he said, no, he wished I wouldn't. And
so I kind of turned my act around after that. It took
me, I was still majoring in pre-vet after four
semesters, having flunked freshman chemistry
twice and English. And, you know, knowing, but I
didn't have any idea I wasn't going to get, but it
was, I was in the, I wanted to stay in the company
that I was in. Grades were not, I was still passing.
So, I guess, you know, I just came back my junior
year. I looked around and I said, what, what can I
major in? that was still in the agricultural
arena.
And I looked at, in the Department of Ag, Eco, and
Rural Sociology, I looked at rural sociology. And
I took a couple of courses over there. And the
professors were truly outstanding. Dr. Russell.
Describe him. Dr. Russell, Dr. Dan, the grade
point man, probably one of the most interesting
individuals we'll ever meet and when I was
involved the other day in helping Dr. Bowen on
getting the ring back here, the Prisoner of War, I
mean, keep thinking of that, the Medal of Honor
ring, I told him, because he was so enthused about
that, I said, you need to go to the library and get
out Dr. Russell's scrapbook over there in the old
library, Cushing, and read about the project
houses that he was involved in. That is the most
amazing piece of, or collection of articles and
letters and things that I've seen on this campus,
what the project houses were about and all of that.
But he was a tremendous individual, had had a lot of
experience. going to graduate school, worked as a
bartender in Chicago during Al Capone's days. So
he had some good stories. Been on the board of
pardon and parole, I guess, for the state. And I had
Dr. Sperbonik, who was. Stay with Russia. OK.
Describe him. I don't know. What physically? Kind
of a heavy set, a white haired gentleman, kind of
the Santa Claus looking. He was so interested in
students. I know his. His wife, they live just a few
houses from where my wife grew up here a block off
campus. And her brother was in charge of the
recreation department of the city of Dallas. So he
had even got me a job up there one summer, because I
thought that might be the area that I want to go. I
didn't do it. Didn't take the job, but I got offered
the job through him. But he was just a very caring
individual. And I think at that time, we thought he
was rather old. Like most of us, I thought my first
grade teacher was old, but she was still teaching
when I graduated from college. But he was an
individual that was pretty easy grading. I think
one of the things that he did for me which I didn't
realize it at the time. My senior year, there was a
two-hour class about Boy Scouts, and at that time I
thought I might want to go to work for the Scouts
too, and so I had a Scout troop at the Bryan Boys
Club, Hispanic young men who, we never had a
uniform, but every Monday night we had Scout
meeting there, and at that time I had an
automobile, so I would take them home after Scout
meeting, they would get there by themselves, and
we'd meet for about an hour and a half and I remember
taken them camping out here at some land Dr. Dan
had. But he was a truly, I put him in the same boat as
some of the other people that I was involved with,
like Mr. Penberthy or Mr. Gay. And
Professor Russell, what was his style in class?
What was his manner of? Very, very easygoing. a
nice guy, so nice nobody would take advantage of.
And I think though, I think the rural sociology
department was very small, a pretty tight group,
and there wasn't any, I think the people that were
in that department, majoring in there, it wasn't
considered a department you go, even though the
curriculum was not as tough as some of them. But it
was kind of an off-the-wall major, and a lot of the
people that were in there, it seemed to me, were
from small towns. And I think that back then, that
really made a difference. Right. And you started
to mention some other folks. Oh, yeah. I had Dr.
Skrobonek, who was such a tremendous. And to this
day, I've had many, many opportunities to be
around him. Excuse me one second.